Explanation of Filter, Reduce, and Sorted in Java
In layman terms, filter, reduce, and sorted are operations provided by the Stream API in Java that allow you to process collections of data in a functional and declarative way. Imagine you have a list of numbers, and you want to filter out the even numbers, sort them, and then reduce them to a single sum. These operations help you achieve that in a clear and concise manner.

Key Points
Filter
Purpose: To select elements from a stream that match a given condition.
Method: filter(Predicate<T> predicate)
Usage: Used to remove elements that do not satisfy the condition.
Example: Filtering even numbers from a list.



Reduce
Purpose: To combine elements of a stream into a single result.
Method: reduce(T identity, BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)
Usage: Used to perform aggregation operations, such as summing or averaging.
Example: Summing up the elements of a list.
Sorted
Purpose: To sort the elements of a stream.
Method: sorted(), sorted(Comparator<T> comparator)
Usage: Used to arrange elements in a natural or custom order.
Example: Sorting a list of numbers in ascending order.




Benefits of Using Filter, Reduce, and Sorted
Concise Code: Reduces the amount of boilerplate code needed for common operations on collections.
Readability: Makes the code more readable and easier to understand by chaining operations together.
Functional Programming: Encourages the use of functional programming concepts like lambda expressions and method references.
Common Use Cases
Filtering: Removing elements that do not match a given condition.
Mapping: Transforming elements into another form.
Sorting: Arranging elements in a specific order.
Reducing: Combining elements into a single result.







Interview Questions and Answers
What is the filter method in the Stream API?

Answer: The filter method is an intermediate operation that returns a stream consisting of elements that match a given predicate. It is used to remove elements that do not satisfy the condition.
What is the reduce method in the Stream API?

Answer: The reduce method is a terminal operation that combines the elements of a stream into a single result using a given binary operator. It is used to perform aggregation operations, such as summing or averaging.
What is the sorted method in the Stream API?

Answer: The sorted method is an intermediate operation that returns a stream consisting of the elements of the stream, sorted according to their natural order or a custom comparator.
Provide an example of using the filter method to select even numbers from a list.

Answer:



List<Integer> nums = Arrays.asList(4, 5, 7, 3, 2, 6);
List<Integer> evenNums = nums.stream()
                             .filter(n -> n % 2 == 0)
                             .collect(Collectors.toList());
System.out.println("Filtered (Even Numbers): " + evenNums);




Provide an example of using the reduce method to sum up the elements of a list.

Answer:
List<Integer> nums = Arrays.asList(4, 5, 7, 3, 2, 6);
int sum = nums.stream()
              .reduce(0, (c, e) -> c + e);
System.out.println("Reduced (Sum): " + sum);



Provide an example of using the sorted method to sort a list of numbers in ascending order.

Answer:
List<Integer> nums = Arrays.asList(4, 5, 7, 3, 2, 6);
List<Integer> sortedNums = nums.stream()
                               .sorted()
                               .collect(Collectors.toList());
System.out.println("Sorted: " + sortedNums);



What is the purpose of the map method in the Stream API?

Answer: The map method is an intermediate operation that returns a stream consisting of the results of applying a given function to the elements of the stream. It is used to transform elements into another form.
How can you chain multiple operations in the Stream API?

Answer: You can chain multiple operations in the Stream API by calling them sequentially on the stream. For example:
int result = nums.stream()
                 .filter(n -> n % 2 == 0)
                 .map(n -> n * 2)
                 .sorted()
                 .reduce(0, (c, e) -> c + e);





What are the benefits of using the Stream API for processing collections?

Answer: The benefits of using the Stream API for processing collections include concise code, improved readability, and the ability to easily parallelize operations for better performance on multi-core processors.
Can you modify the elements of a collection using the Stream API?

Answer: No, the Stream API is designed for processing and transforming data, not for modifying the underlying collection. Streams are intended to be used in a functional programming style, where data is transformed and new collections are created rather than modifying existing ones.